[Python Final Project Write-Up.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/27861948/Python.Final.Project.Write-Up.txt)
# final_python_project

Link to this essay as a Google doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V3kQZItD3hCm-wTMbc7HO0YCMVYaPb-7BXzCiTAHStE/edit?usp=sharing 

Sentence generator based on the advice series for the New School Free Press: Love, Lucy
**love_lucy_sentence_generator.py** if the generator. You prompt it with a word in the Love, Lucy corpus and it attempts to create a     sentence using predictive learning.
I have two files (**FIRST_ATTEMPT and scraper_code_backup**) that were my first attempts to try and build something before switching to a markov chain, which is what ended up working for me.
**NSFPscraper.ipynb** is the scraper I used to sort the Love, Lucy articles I wanted in my corpus text, and to spot any missing articles by scraping the publication dates of each one.

Simon Jones\n
Jacob Koehler\n
Data and Design with Python\n
May 14, 2026\n

Learning from Failure

For my final project, I wanted to create a user-accessible archive of New School Free Press articles. I wanted this archive to, at its core, be able to search for every article ever published by our student-run paper, at least that had been published on the web. (I would love to have it include print as well at some point — which was something I wanted to do as part of this project, and is something I still want to do.) The New School Free Press website’s search bar is infuriating, as a user and as a staff member, and I just want one that works. And one that, theoretically, could be used by NSFP to improve their site’s accessibility.

My first idea was to find some pretrained archival model that could read through a bunch of files and sort them in some way that could be read and looked through by the user. I wasn’t even sure if this was something that a “pretrained model” could do, as the data wasn’t inherently what I was looking for a model to learn. I wanted a model that could recognize the structure and formatting of any set of data, and then use that information to sort the data. I started searching for something that seemed like it could do some version of my vision — or even just something that I could feasibly understand. ArchiveSpace had something that peaked my interest, so I went to the Github page to see what I could use, and quickly realized that this was more complicated than I first realized. Evenso, I downloaded some pieces and continued searching to see if there was any way I could piece something together, or even start piecing something together.

That’s when I decided to pivot and start with the one thing I already knew how to do: scrape the New School Free Press website and create a library that I could use for a pretrained model, if I could find one. This was where I ran into my first major problem: the New School Free Press website is one of the most frustrating platforms I’ve ever interacted with. And scraping wasn’t going as smoothly as I was hoping for, and trying to work around it was eating up more and more time.
So I decided to pivot, and instead I used what little scraping tool I had made to help me collect all the text of each installment of the paper’s advice column, Love, Lucy, from the past three semesters. In colab, I was able to create an output that scraped the title, publication date, and visuals credit for each installment of Love, Lucy. I didn’t scrape the author name as each article is written anonymously under Lucy Loveland.

Once collecting all of the articles and building a single corpus text — which I did manually but I used the scraper I built to make sure I didn’t miss any from the specific time period I was selecting (three semester) — and built a markov chain model, which is a format I had learned about in a past class but I never understood in the context of pretrained models. This model would generate or predict sentences based on the corpus text of Love, Lucy articles. The user prompts it to create a sentence by entering a single word into the field in terminal when the program is running, and the model takes the corpus text to try and figure out the likelihood of the next word, thus creating sentences based on predictive learning.

I didn’t fully understand the level of “training” happening when I first learned about a markov chain, and while my final product isn’t the outcome I had originally wanted to get out of this project, I was able to take my idea and apply even some small part of it. When scraping the New School Free Press website for even just the titles of specific articles, I could see a pipeline forming to some real archive projects down the line, going back to all of my ideas about bringing in physical media and making the archive accessible for users.

I have worked on the New School Free Press as a copyeditor for over two years now. We did not start fact-checking until after my first semester. This spring, I worked as Head of Copy, and the grind was unlike anything I had ever experienced before, and in some aspects, I could not handle it. But I was fueled by my responsibility to my job: I wanted our information to be factual, and to also be helpful. The New School Free Press is currently the only source trying to communicate to the community about what’s actually going on with the restructuring, and also what is going on with student worker unions on campus. No other outlets are gathering information on these things to help the students, and so it became apparent to me really quickly that this wasn’t some little backend project but was an important and necessary component of ensuring this community and the students at this school understand their rights and understand when and how to ask questions so that they can get the information they need to protect their education and their work. In this regard, I think an archive system at NSFP is essential, and I was not aware just how extensive the level of disorganization and inaccessibility was on their website. But as a student with, now, a ton of work I’ve edited and written on this website, the lack of disorganization feels more pressing than I originally contemplated. So I want to continue taking the foundational approaches I’ve learned about data collecting and model training to properly create archival systems that work, and that I can trust. Google is becoming a system I no longer want to rely on for absolutely everything, and this class has given me the necessary tools to have some level of autonomy in this increasingly digital world. I hope the implications of my project translate, even if it is a drop of water compared to my original idea.

I figured, I had to start somewhere.
